 

 The Fed - Monetary Policy: Beige Book (Branch) 

 Skip to main content 

 An official website of the United States Government

 Here's how you know 
 Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

 Back to Home 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

 Stay Connected 

 Federal Reserve Facebook Page 

 Federal Reserve Instagram Page 

 Federal Reserve YouTube Page 

 Federal Reserve Flickr Page 

 Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page 

 Federal Reserve Threads Page 

 Federal Reserve X Page 

 Federal Reserve Bluesky Page 

 Subscribe to RSS 

 Subscribe to Email 

 Recent Postings 

 Calendar 

 Publications 

 Site Map 

 A-Z index 

 Careers 

 FAQs 

 Videos 

 Contact 

 Search 

 Submit Search Button 

 Advanced 

 Toggle Dropdown Menu 

 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

 The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides
 the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial
 system. 

 Main Menu Toggle Button 

 Sections 

 Search Toggle Button 

 Search 

 Search Submit Button 
 Submit 

 About the Fed 

 Structure of the Federal Reserve System 

 The Fed Explained 

 Board Members 

 Advisory Councils 

 Federal Reserve Banks 

 Federal Reserve Bank and Branch Directors 

 Federal Reserve Act 

 Currency 

 Board Meetings 

 Board Votes 

 Careers 

 Do Business with the Board 

 Holidays Observed - K.8 

 Ethics & Values 

 Contact 

 Requesting Information (FOIA) 

 FAQs 

 Economic Education 

 Fed Financial Statements 

 Financial Innovation 

 News & Events 

 Press Releases 

 Speeches & Testimony 

 Calendar 

 Videos 

 Photo Gallery 

 Conferences 

 Monetary Policy 

 Federal Open Market Committee 

 About the FOMC 

 Meeting calendars and information 

 Transcripts and other historical materials 

 FAQs 

 Monetary Policy Principles and Practice 

 Notes 

 Policy Implementation 

 Policy Normalization 

 Policy Tools 

 Reports 

 Monetary Policy Report 

 Beige Book 

 Federal Reserve Balance Sheet Developments 

 Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications 

 Overview 

 Supervision & Regulation 

 Supervision 

 Community Banks 

 Regional Banks and Foreign Banks with U.S. Assets 

 Large Banks and Large Foreign Banks 

 Global Systemically Important Banks 

 Financial Market
 Utilities 

 Consumer
 Compliance 

 Resources for Supervised Institutions 

 Reports 

 Federal Reserve
 Supervision and Regulation Report 

 Reporting Forms 

 Recent Reporting Form Updates 

 Information Collections
 Under Review 

 Financial
 Statements 

 Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

 Applications/Structure Change 

 FFIEC 

 Municipal and
 Government Securities 

 Activities Monitoring 

 Micro Data Reference Manual 

 Legal Developments 

 Enforcement Actions and
 Legal Developments 

 Mergers, Acquisitions, and Other Applications 

 Process 

 Filing
 Information 

 Board and Reserve
 Bank Actions 

 Supervision and Regulation Letters 

 By Year 

 By Topic 

 Regulatory and Policy Resources 

 Federal Reserve Act 

 Bank Holding Company Act 

 Regulations 

 Supervision Manuals 

 Federal Reserve Regulatory Service 

 Disaster Preparedness and Recovery Resources

 Banking and Data Structure 

 Beneficial Ownership
 Reports 

 Large Commercial Banks 

 Minority Depository
 Institutions 

 U.S. Offices of Foreign Entities 

 Financial Holding
 Companies 

 Interstate
 Branching 

 Securities
 Underwriting and Dealing Subsidiaries 

 State Member Banks Supervised by the Federal Reserve 

 Financial Stability 

 Financial Stability Assessments 

 About Financial Stability 

 Types of Financial System Vulnerabilities & Risks 

 Monitoring Risk Across the Financial System 

 Proactive Monitoring of Markets & Institutions 

 Financial Stability & Stress Testing 

 Financial Stability Coordination & Actions 

 Responding to Financial System Emergencies 

 Cooperation on Financial Stability 

 Reports 

 Financial Stability Report 

 Payment Systems 

 Regulations & Statutes 

 Regulation CC (Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks) 

 Regulation II (Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing) 

 Regulation HH (Financial Market Utilities) 

 Other Regulations and Statutes 

 Payment Policies 

 Federal Reserve's Key Policies for the Provision of Financial Services 

 Guidelines for Evaluating Joint Account Requests 

 Overnight Overdrafts 

 Payment System Risk 

 Sponsorship for Priority Telecommunication Services 

 Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data 

 Automated Clearinghouse Services 

 Check Services 

 Currency and Coin Services 

 Daylight Overdrafts and Fees 

 FedNow ® Service 

 Fedwire Funds Services 

 Fedwire Securities Services 

 Fiscal Agency Services 

 Master Account and Services Database 

 National Settlement Service 

 Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures 

 Supervision & Oversight of Financial Market Infrastructures 

 Designated Financial Market Utilities 

 International Standards for Financial Market Infrastructures 

 Research, Reports, & Committees 

 Federal Reserve Payments Study (FRPS) 

 Payments Research 

 Reports 

 Payments System Policy Advisory Committee 

 Economic Research 

 Meet the Researchers 

 Working Papers and Notes 

 Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) 

 FEDS Notes 

 International Finance Discussion Papers (IFDP) 

 Data, Models and Tools 

 Economic Research Data 

 FRB/US Model 

 Estimated Dynamic Optimization (EDO) Model 

 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 

 Data 

 Data Download Program 

 Bank Assets and Liabilities 

 Aggregate Reserves of Depository Institutions and the Monetary Base - H.3 

 Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks in the U.S. - H.8 

 Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks 

 Charge-Off and Delinquency Rates on Loans and Leases at Commercial Banks 

 Senior Financial Officer Survey 

 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices 

 Bank Structure Data 

 Large Commercial Banks 

 Minority Depository Institutions 

 Structure and Share Data for the U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks 

 Business Finance 

 Commercial Paper 

 Finance Companies - G.20 

 New Security Issues, State and Local Governments 

 New Security Issues, U.S. Corporations 

 Dealer Financing Terms 

 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms 

 Exchange Rates and International Data 

 Foreign Exchange Rates - H.10/G.5 

 International Summary Statistics 

 Securities Holdings and Transactions 

 Statistics Reported by Banks and Other Financial Firms in the United States 

 Structure and Share Data for U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks 

 Financial Accounts 

 Financial Accounts of the United States - Z.1 

 Household Finance 

 Consumer Credit - G.19 

 Household Debt Service Ratios 

 Mortgage Debt Outstanding 

 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 

 Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking 

 Industrial Activity 

 Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization - G.17 

 Interest Rates 

 Selected Interest Rates - H.15 

 Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM) 

 Micro and Macro Data Collections 

 Money Stock and Reserve Balances 

 Factors Affecting Reserve Balances - H.4.1 

 Money Stock Measures - H.6 

 Other 

 Yield Curve Models and Data 

 Consumers & Communities 

 Regulations 

 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) 

 All Regulations 

 Supervision & Enforcement 

 CA Letters 

 Enforcement Actions 

 Independent Foreclosure Review 

 Community Development 

 Housing and Neighborhood Revitalization 

 Small Business and Entrepreneurship 

 Employment and Workforce Development 

 Community Development Finance 

 Rural Community and Economic Development 

 Conferences 

 Research & Analysis 

 Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking 

 Research Publications & Data Analysis 

 Community Advisory Council 

 Resources for Consumers 

 Frauds and Scams 

 Mortgage and Foreclosure Resources 

 Federal Reserve Community Development Resources 

 Home 

 Monetary Policy 

 Beige Book 

 May 31, 2023 

 Beige Book

 Full Report National Summary 

 National Summary

 This report was prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago based on information collected on or before May 22, 2023. This document summarizes comments received from contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 Overall Economic Activity 
Economic activity was little changed overall in April and early May. Four Districts reported small increases in activity, six no change, and two slight to moderate declines. Expectations for future growth deteriorated a little, though contacts still largely expected a further expansion in activity. Consumer expenditures were steady or higher in most Districts, with many noting growth in spending on leisure and hospitality. Education and healthcare organizations saw steady activity on balance. Manufacturing activity was flat to up in most Districts, and supply chain issues continued to improve. Demand for transportation services was down, especially in trucking, where contacts reported there was a "freight recession." Residential real estate activity picked up in most Districts despite continued low inventories of homes for sale. Commercial construction and real estate activity decreased overall, with the office segment continuing to be a weak spot. Outlooks for farm income fell in most districts, and energy activity was flat to down amidst lower natural gas prices. Financial conditions were stable or somewhat tighter in most Districts. Contacts in several Districts noted a rise in consumer loan delinquencies, which were returning closer to pre-pandemic levels. High inflation and the end of Covid-19 benefits continued to stress the budgets of low- and moderate-income households, driving increased demand for social services, including food and housing.

 Labor Markets 
Employment increased in most Districts, though at a slower pace than in previous reports. Overall, the labor market continued to be strong, with contacts reporting difficulty finding workers across a wide range of skill levels and industries. That said, contacts across Districts also noted that the labor market had cooled some, highlighting easier hiring in construction, transportation, and finance. Many contacts said they were fully staffed, and some reported they were pausing hiring or reducing headcounts due to weaker actual or prospective demand or to greater uncertainty about the economic outlook. Staffing firms reported slower growth in demand. As in the last report, wages grew modestly.

 Prices 
Prices rose moderately over the reporting period, though the rate of increase slowed in many Districts. Contacts in most Districts expected a similar pace of price increases in the coming months. Consumer prices continued to move up due to solid demand and rising costs, though several Districts noted greater price sensitivity by consumers than in the prior report. Overall, nonlabor input costs rose, but many contacts said cost pressures had eased and noted price declines for some inputs, such as shipping and certain raw materials. Home prices and rents rose slightly on balance in most Districts, after little growth in the prior period.

 Highlights by Federal Reserve District 
 Boston 
Business activity was flat on average. Modest revenue increases were reported among retail, restaurant, and manufacturing contacts. Labor demand weakened for a wide range of positions but headcounts declined only slightly. Wage and price pressures eased further on average but some sizable price increases were reported. The outlook was cautiously optimistic.

 New York 
Regional economic activity declined at a moderate pace, with ongoing weakness in the manufacturing sector. Still, the labor market has remained solid, though there have been scattered signs of cooling due to heightened uncertainty. Inflationary pressures remained persistent. Conditions in the broad finance sector continued to worsen.

 Philadelphia 
Business activity continued to decline slightly during the current Beige Book period. Contacts reported positive consumer sales, but that relatively high profit margins mean that volumes may be down. Labor availability improved, and employment grew slightly. Wage growth and inflation continued to subside. Contacts worried about the debt ceiling and bank failures but maintained positive expectations for growth over the next six months.

 Cleveland 
Economic activity and employment were generally stable in the Fourth District, while cost and price pressures were little changed. Most firms indicated they were somewhat concerned about the standstill in Congress over raising the debt ceiling; however, these concerns did not appear to impact firms' outlooks for activity in the coming months.

 Richmond 
The regional economy was little changed in recent weeks. Consumer spending on retail goods declined slightly but spending on travel and tourism picked up moderately. A lack of inventory ordering by retailers was felt in the manufacturing and transportation sectors. Commercial real estate activity and lending softened. Employment increased modestly and price growth eased slightly but remained robust, overall.

 Atlanta 
Economic activity grew gradually. Labor markets became less tight, and wage pressures eased. Nonlabor costs moderated, on balance. Retail sales softened. Sales of new autos were solid. Leisure travel softened to pre-pandemic levels, and business travel increased. Housing demand was strong. Transportation activity declined. Energy demand was robust. Agriculture conditions slowed.

 Chicago 
Economic activity was little changed. Employment increased moderately; nonbusiness contacts saw a small increase in activity; consumer and business spending were flat; and activity decreased modestly both for manufacturing and for construction and real estate. Prices and wages rose moderately, while financial conditions tightened modestly. Expectations for farm incomes in 2023 decreased some.

 St. Louis 
Economic conditions have remained unchanged since our previous report. Labor markets remained tight, but reports of easing increased. Firms reported margin compression due to an inability to pass on input price increases. Residential real estate was largely unchanged, but demand for commercial properties weakened. The outlook worsened slightly due to concerns about weakening demand and macro uncertainty.

 Minneapolis 
The region's economy grew slightly since early April. Labor demand was healthy, and wage pressures were high, but there were also significant layoffs. Price increases were generally modest, but levels remained high. Some manufacturers said input costs decreased, but most reported no change. Consumer spending rose modestly, and travel was strong. Minority-and women-owned firms saw a slight decrease in activity.

 Kansas City 
Total economic activity across the Tenth District changed little during May. Job growth continued to slow, despite the number of job openings remaining elevated, as businesses were reportedly more selective in their hiring. Most businesses indicated price growth for finished products will likely moderate over the coming year. Growth in housing rental rates was also expected to moderate, even though it remains elevated in many parts of the District.

 Dallas 
Modest growth continued, with revenue gains in the service and retail sectors. Housing contacts noted a decent spring selling season and stable prices. Credit conditions tightened further, and loan demand continued to decline. Payrolls rose moderately, and wage growth remained stubbornly elevated. Outlooks continued to worsen, and contacts voiced concern over waning demand, rising interest rates, and the overall health of the economy.

 San Francisco 
Economic activity expanded somewhat. Employment levels were stable amid tight labor market conditions, while wage and price growth moderated further. Retail sales grew modestly, and activity in the services picked up somewhat. Manufacturing activity was robust, while conditions in the agriculture sector weakened slightly. Residential and commercial real estate activity fell, and conditions in the financial sector worsened modestly.

 Back to Top 

 Last Update:
 May 31, 2023

 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

 About the Fed 
 News & Events 
 Monetary Policy 
 Supervision & Regulation 
 Financial Stability 
 Payment Systems 
 Economic Research 
 Data 
 Consumers & Communities 
 Connect with the Board 

 Tools and Information

 Contact 

 Publications 

 Freedom of Information (FOIA) 

 Office of Inspector General 

 Budget & Performance | Audit 

 No FEAR Act 

 Español 

 Website Policies | Privacy Program 

 Accessibility 

 Stay Connected

 Federal Reserve Facebook Page 
 Federal Reserve Instagram Page 

 Federal Reserve YouTube Page 

 Federal Reserve Flickr Page 

 Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page 

 Federal Reserve Threads Page 
 Link to Federal Reserve X Page 
 Link to Federal Reserve Bluesky Page 
 Subscribe to RSS 

 Subscribe to Email 

 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551

 -->